Created tutorial on how to setup a game server with AMP (#72)
hetzneronline/community-content: tutorials/game-server-with-amp/01.en.md

---
SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
path: "/tutorials/game-server-with-amp"
slug: "minecraft-server-with-amp"
date: "2019-03-17"
title: "Game server server with AMP"
short_description: "In this tutorial we are going to setup a game server server with AMP"
tags: [, "Gaming", "Webinterface"]
author: "ntimo"
author_img: "https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/6145026"

> ---

Author: Going to readd them :)

* Create new project and name it whatever you want
* Choose your server location it's up to you
* Click `Add Server` and select `Ubuntu 18.04` from Image
* Choose the resources you need from Type
* Click on the field `User Data` enter this `#include https://get.docker.com` (this will install docker)
* Select your SSH-Key 
    * You can read [this](https://help.github.com/en/enterprise/2.16/user/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent) article to know how to generate SSH key
* Write your server hostname in `name` input
* Click `Create & Buy Now`

## Step 2 - Install updates on the server (optional)

Wait a few seconds for the server to startup and then connect to it using SSH and your private key.
Now you should install available updates on your server by running:  

`apt update && apt upgrade -y`  

## Step 2.1 - Install Java (for Minecraft servers)

If you want to run a Minecraft server you will need to install java you can do so by executing:  
`apt install -y openjdk-8-jre`

## Step 3 - Install AMP

Now you want to install AMP, in order to do connect to your server via ssh and then execute:  

> `sudo su -c "bash <(wget -qO- https://cubecoders.com/getamp.sh)"`  

Author: Yes I took it from the official docs. But I am going to change it. This makes much more sense :)

## Step 5 - Create a Game server instance

Click on `Create Instance` then in the `Application` dropdown select the game server you want (for example Minecraft Java Edition). In the field `Friendly Name (Optional)` you can give the server a name this is optional but can be nice. Please do not check the checkbox `Create as standalone (Not managed by ADS)` because this will make it impossible to manage the instace via the ADS webinterface.

## Step 6 - Connect to the instance

You should now see a new instance in the `local instances` block. It should have the colour red, click onto it and then select `Start Instance`. Now when you click on the `Manage` button you will see the AMP interface for that instance and be able to manage it.

## Step 7 - Make AMP start at boot

In order to make AMP start at boot you will have to type `crontab -e` then choose a editor for example `nano`, then when you scroll all the way down you have to add `@reboot /opt/cubecoders/amp/ampinstmgr -b` to the file. You can then exit and save by pressing `control+x` if you are asked if want to save press enter to confirm.

## Step 8 - Upgrade AMP

> Sometimes comes the time where a new AMP version is release, in order to upgrade AMP the latest version simply run `ampinstmgr upgradeall`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes a new AMP version gets released. In order to upgrade AMP to  the latest version, simply run `ampinstmgr upgradeall`.
```

---
SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
path: "/tutorials/game-server-with-amp"
slug: "minecraft-server-with-amp"
date: "2019-03-17"
title: "Game server server with AMP"
short_description: "In this tutorial we are going to setup a game server server with AMP"

> tags: [, "Gaming", "Webinterface"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: ["Gaming", "Webinterface"]
```

author: "ntimo"

> author_link: "https://github.com/ntimo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author_link: "https://github.com/ntimo"
```
